Was Silver Tap celebrated off of the roof of the
academic building like it is now? Was Sully's
statue already there when you were a student? Yes.
Did you all celebrate Aggie Muster on April 21st?
Sure
did. Texas celebrated. Oh, I agree. I think
musters, silver taps, midnight yell practice,
final review, and commencements, I think, are
some of the key events in building Aggie pride.
That's right. I'm going to do the muster this year
in Nashville, Tennessee. This will be my 25th
muster speech. I'm one of the few people that has
ever done the muster speech at College Station
that doesn't have an Aggie degree or wasn't a
four-star general.
When final review was held then, Was it held on the
place that we call the drill field today?
Did your parents come for graduation and
commissioning?
Yes, sir. And they came on the train. Do you
remember anybody who owned a car when you were a
student?
Because I presume no student had a car.
What was your Corps outfit's name? B-1. B-1. Did
you all have a nickname?
Yes, sir. Let's see. Was that an infantry outfit?
Did the cavalrymen play polo then? I
don't remember. You weren't involved in any of the
athletic teams. You weren't a member of the...
What were your favorite extracurricular
activities? What did you do for pleasure?
Did you spend much time in the library studying?
And I understand that a freshman could not be
harassed while he was in the library studying.
Now, on Saturday nights, where did you and your
buddies go to celebrate?
Where you could hide? Did y'all go to the rock pits,
the clay pits? Were those places to swim then?
Later there would be some gravel pits where they
swam. Did y'all do that?
Oh, okay. Not anymore. But there was then a fish
tank? And what did you wear when you were swimming
in the fish tank?
Did you wear anything?
Do you remember going to Houston ever just for fun?
Football game only. And let's see, did Rice play
football yet?
Who was your favorite opponent in football?
Texas? Still is. Still is.
I agree. But one of the things that I think is good
today, that every time Texas achieves something,
we want to outdo them. and vice versa, so we are both
getting better, trying to be better than each
other, and the people of Texas gain. Are you proud
to be a Texan? Yeah, I'm proud. That's right. I
agree with you. I agree. How long has your family
lived in Texas?
My father was born in Alabama. Alabama. Came to
Texas. Oh,
that's a lot.
So he would have come in the 1880s?
Where did he first live in Texas? West Texas. And
when did your family move to Uvalde?
Oh,
I see.
Ah.
something about first time ever town club
So,
I thought about it, and I thought about it, and I
thought about it, and I thought about it, and I
said, She
told me.
In
those days, did students take Spanish very often?
No. What about German? Did you take German in high
school? Because I know during World War I, I have
read that we quit teaching German because of the
war. I
went to get
it. I knew it was going to be in the army. I went
there, barely.
I said, T.C., see, you're going to start planning
for it. I came along and took all of those
in. I went. I said, T.C., get ready to go to war.
I'm
going to write a poem about it.
When you would ride the train to and from College
Station, you went from College Station to where on
the train? To Houston?
And did you go through San Antonio?
Now, while you were at A&M, was your father
ranching or farming? Farming. Farming. And his
cash crops were what? Cotton? Onions. Onions.
What kind of onions then? White? Bermuda onions?
Yellow. How many acres? I don't remember the
name. He gave me an acre. And that helped to pay your
way. $60.
Now, where was he growing onions? Near what town?
Near Mellon?
Did he own the land or did he rent it? He owned it?
When had he bought it?
What is that land used for now?
Is that right? And how many, did he grow onions on
the same ground year after year?
Have you, since you've been in the agriculture,
have you ever grown onions?
Because that was tough work, wasn't it? Onions
made more money per acre than cotton. Oh yeah,
can't beat that. Can't beat...
My.
That's a lot of money in that time. That's a lot.
Alright, then when you got out of A&M, you first
went to work for the 4-H?
How did you get that job?
Did you enjoy it? Did that take you all over the
state? Who were the people that you remember that
were helpful?
What kind of? Tell me what you did in that capacity.
Did you speak or work with the high school
teachers?
What was your, do you remember what your pay was in
that first job?
$450 a year. And you lived where?
On the campus at A&M. For how long did you live
there?
Two or three years. And traveled by train. You were
on the road about half the time? So
you learned from missing that train one time.
It would be a nice love. I never, but it's just
right.
Tell me about what the Depression did to people in
Texas. How bad was it?
What
did you do during the Depression? You continued to
work.
Now, did the Depression affect one part of
agriculture more than others? All of it. So cattle
and cotton and everything.
Let's see. Let me stop this and let you take a rest
now, and I'll come back after lunch.
As World War II approached, What were you doing in
the late 30s, early 40s?
You were still with the extension?
Oh.
Carmen, Crayman, Hello, Crayman, Plainfield,
all the banks in the world.
I
think you're right, I know it.
When did you meet Gus Wortham?
During
how involved in politics were you in the 1930s? Did
you have to go to Austin often to lobby for
agriculture?
So you didn't have to work with W. Leo Daniel or...
Jimmy Allred or?
No, I knew him all. If you describe Governor
O'Daniel for me then, please. You say you knew him.
A wheeler dealer. A wheeler dealer? Yeah. Was he
honest? And physically, big, small?
Excuse me, go ahead.
Wait.
I
said, can you raise that money? He said, I can raise
it. I said, I can raise it. He said, I can raise it. I
said, I can raise it. He said, I can raise it. I said,
I can raise it.
of the agricultural groups during that time,
which one had the greatest political influence?
Was it the cattlemen?
And the Farm Bureau?
Which governors cared most about agriculture?
Conley. Conley? Now, that causes me to ask, of all
the governors you know, which governors made the
best appointments, appointed the best people to
boards and agencies? I believe Conley. That's the
answer everybody gives. Good for everybody. I've
asked, how did he select good people? And two or
three folks have said he would tell his staff a long
time in advance, I need to appoint members to the
whatever it is. Bring me a list of all the quality
people that I ought to consider. And then from that
list, he selected high quality people. You were
mentioning a while ago when you and Governor
Daniel chatted before your A&M appointment. How
did your name come to his attention? Who proposed
you or recommended you? Do you know? Who?
And do you know how many others he considered when
he considered you?
Did he ask you any other questions except
co-education questions?
Did you ever work with Gib Gilchrist?
Tell me about him, please, about Mr. Gilchrist.
Did he do a good job at A&M?
His son Henry told me that when they moved there,
that he, the son, didn't like it because after
living in Austin, College Station seemed so
small, but that his father then bribed him by
giving him a new bicycle. He was 13 years old. And he
said that almost every faculty member and staff
member lived on the campus and that he thought it
was a long way from College Station to anywhere
else. He also said that College Station was not yet
incorporated so that when Mr. Bryan up at the First
National Bank in Bryan planned to annex College
Station that his father as Dean of Engineering and
some others on the campus got busy and
incorporated College Station. Did any of you
former students help with that?
This boy,
the president of the bank, the father, the
stepfather, fired me with a gun, with a gun. I said,
give me the gun. Out of the way.